I'd say you gotta ask yourself what is
holding up in this hideous environment
the stay-at-home economy the packaged
food companies this is classic recession
proof group that's even more attractive
when we're forced to eat at home just
like at Hormel the maker of spam Skippy
peanut butter applicator organic meats
jennie-o turkey and Hormel canned chili
among other brands when the market was
roaring yesterday Hormel vaulted 14
percent when we got hammered today it
was only down less than 1% makes sense
spam is exactly what you'd expect people
to stock up on when they're worried
about being stuck in a quarantine but is
that really what's happening let's take
a close-up with Jim State he's the
chairman president CEO of Hormel which
does such a great job you have better
sense companies ferry in the Stan home
world mr. Steve welcome back to man
money well Jim thank you for having us
it's a pleasure to be back with you I
said Jim AG my wife Lisa was at Kings as
the store on Saturday like everybody
else I'd come back and there is
literally a mountain of skipping okay
and I said why'd you do that just
because well that's what you do and I
try to get a sense all she was like
circular region I said but why just well
cuz we all know why do we all know that
this is what you buy in a quarantine
we've never been quarantined well and we
do know that you know in the current
situation of so many consumers are
looking for good high-quality shelf
stable products you know in the case
just in case they are quarantined they
want to make sure that they've got good
high-quality products that are gonna
last and I mean we're seeing that across
the country we're seeing that in all of
our retailers and you know it's across
all of our brands all of our business
it's spam it's Skippy it's Applegate
it's jennie-o whether it's center of the
store or refrigerated we're seeing a
significant uptick across so many of our
businesses so many things are falling
apart in this country right now Jim I
think what's interesting is the
importance of food supply availability
this is something that's still working
how come well I'll tell you why it's
working it's really because of the
incredible team of production
professionals I know in our facilities
they're just absolutely amazing
there is such a spirit of responsibility
and just an obligation to know that that
we play a critical role in the food
supply and consumers are counting on us
but I'll tell you we're not alone right
I mean the food industry has stepped up
as you knew it would and so I mean we're
really proud of our production
professionals but it's not just us it's
the entire food industry that knows the
country needs us and so they're working
tirelessly to meet the demand of our
customers and our consumers
there also is there's an analyst JP
Morgan a good person I got another
person as a cell in your company and
they're worried about the African swine
fever in China and positon that what
they call a headwind
I mean hasn't the tailwind of the stay
at home economy obliterated the headwind
or the African swine fever yeah I think
that was top of mine three months ago I
mean the world has changed dramatically
just since our last earnings call when
we were talking about that you know as
we're thinking about how the world has
changed it is making sure that we have
good quality products available for
consumers you know the other thing we
know that's changed is the food service
industry right and so the dynamics in
that industry has changed and we're
doing absolutely everything that we can
to work with our distributor and
operator partners to make sure that
we're offering them innovative and
creative new product solutions as they
go into this new world of delivery and
takeout in a way that they never had
before
no there's another way to look at this
problem to uh China how your operations
here yeah actually I heard this morning
from our team and there's actually a
return to normalcy and so our plants are
fully staffed what we're hearing just
out and about is that people are are in
the communities retail business is
strong and the food service business is
really starting to bounce back so you
know if there is another side to this
and obviously we've got to get through
the eye of the storm but we can look to
China and see that that we can and will
come out of this just hold on if people
can just hold on their stock
I know I can't ask anyone not to lose
money but okay so I've got my black
pepper spam I didn't mean I was making
jokes about the pumpkin spits I thought
it tasted good I was just having some
fun
teriyaki spam the Millennials who are
now staying at home and supposed to
trying to get a sick they love your
stuff now what is the affinity why do
they like the teriyaki the black pepper
they like the I guess the different
varieties
well they do you know and and you know
we don't want to be self-serving about
this but you know the fact is even
before this uptick in demand
you know spam was on track for its sixth
consecutive record year and so we've
really hit our stride with that brand
even though it's an iconic 80 plus year
old brand
I mean it's connecting with today's
consumer in a way that really it never
had before I mean it's probably more
relevant today than it's ever been and
so you know they're using it is an
ingredient they're they're frying it
they're using it multiple different ways
and you know I think it just speaks
volumes to how we've been able to build
that business and keep it relevant for
so many years 129 years strong
incredible financial strength but also a
heart you're donating to hunger because
it grown a virus correct yeah yeah we
are Jim and you know you the first thing
you touched on was our incredible
financial strength I mean you know we've
got a rock-solid balance sheet
incredible cash flows and that's really
our message to our team here is there's
there's not a company that's better
positioned to weather the storm than
Hormel Foods I mean this is what we're
made for you know it's a hundred and
twenty years 2129 years of incredibly
rich history we're compassionate were
empathetic we're generous and we know
that at a time like this our communities
are counting on us more than ever and so
we know that we have an obligation to
take care of those who take care of us
and you know this is the the beginning
of our ability to help during this
crisis and it's a million dollar
donation to help with the food insecure
and again we hope it's just the first
step in making a big difference last
question I've got in my hands
Hormel chili with beans and it says it's
the number one selling chili in America
this is a pure what we call center aisle
foods we all heard everyone have just
avoided the center aisle no one goes
there anymore could this be an actual
change of where people go in the
supermarket well you know we never
subscribed to that theory to begin with
Jim I mean we never bought into the
story that center of the store was dead
I mean we had a number of categories
that were performing well before this
uptick and I think we believe it will
continue and so when you think about
spam you think about Skippy you think
about Hormel chili you think about our
great authentic Mexican products I mean
consumers were going there for our
products they were shopping in the
categories obviously this is a chance
for so many of them to reconnect with
them it's not the preferred way it's not
how we want consumers to reconnect with
them but you know we know that we have a
role to fill in the supply chain we take
that responsibility very seriously and
in the midst of this crisis
you know what leaders do is they lead
and our entire company is taking that
very seriously gotcha
all right Jim C thank you so much for
being a story for being there and for
having an unbelievable stock that we
love because of your dividend policy we
didn't even get to that that's next time
thank you so much to Jim Steve chairman
president CEO of Hormel Foods Skippy
peanut butter it's the only one we have
bunnies packet
don't miss a second of Mad Money follow
at Jim Cramer on Twitter have a question
tweet Cramer hashtag mad tweets send Jim
an email to mad money at cnbc.com or
give us a call at one eight hundred
seven forty three CNBC this something ed
to mad money does cnbc.com
you